>> Kyle: So then you get to thinking,
well, if i can put a variable,
if i can put an expression
inside of those parentheses and
then immediately run that expression,
why couldn't i just
take the another teacher function and
put it as an expression?
Why do I have to make it into
a variable and put the variable in?
Why don't I just take that function and
put it right there?
So here we're going to replace
the variable with the function expression.
Now inside of that first
set of parentheses,
we still have the second set of
parentheses down here to execute it.
We have a function expression
that is then immediately invoked.
And being the terribly creative
bunch that we are in JavaScript,
back in 2010 we coined the phrase
immediately invoked function expression,
a.k.a IIFE.
That's where this comes from,
using a function expression to create
a scope, immediately invoking it.
It's a sort of ephemeral thing,
we only need it for that moment, just so
we can have a scope.
So it runs once and
then it kinda goes away.
It's not like a regular function that
we might need to call multiple times.
It's a once and done sort of thing, and
that's why we use the IIFE pattern.
Why is this not a function declaration?
>> Speaker 2: Some sort of parentheses.
>> Kyle: Because the word function is
not the first thing in the statement.
In other words, those parentheses
are there literally for no other purpose
than to syntactically turn that into
an expression instead of a declaration.
There are a variety of other syntactic
ways to turn a function into
an expression.
For example, instead of the first
surrounding parentheses set,
we could have put a unary operator, like
a plus or a negate or a minus or a tilde.
We could have even used the lesser
known but still important delete or
void operators.
Anyone of those unary operators would
have had the effect of turning that from
a function declaration into
a function expression, and
it would have then been able to execute.
We'd like to not have to, it would be
nice if we could conceptually just
make a function declaration that executes,
but then think about it,
even if we could do that, the function
declaration would still have the effect of
polluting the enclosing scope.
So what we really need here is
a function that we can run, and
not pollute the enclosing scope.
And by turning it into a function
expression, we accomplish that.
So the name another
teacher doesn't show up.
Now you've almost certainly
seen your IIFEs as anonymous.
You've almost certainly seen those IIFEs
without any name there, like you see here
on line 4, because of our love affair
with anonymous function expressions.
Recall my recommendation from earlier?
Never, ever, ever should you have
anonymous function expressions, and
that includes your IFFIEs.
If you are making an IIFE,
there's some purpose for it.
In my silly example here where
we're talking about a teacher,
there's not a lot of purpose.
It's not very easy to figure out.
You could still call it another teacher or
give it some other name to describe
the purpose of that particular scope.
>> Kyle: And if you really are just stuck
and you can't come up with any name
to describe the need for
some particular scope.
>> Kyle: Then just use the word IIFE.
IIFE, in capital letters.
And it's gonna show up
in your stack trace,
you're gonna know it's
coming from an IIFE.
That's still better than seeing
an anonymous function, and
having no idea where it came from,
or what it was for.
>> Kyle: What's nice about these IIFEs,
whether they're anonymous or not,
is that they are just functions,
which means we can pass in values.
So here, I was able to eliminate,
didn't even need to make any assignments.
I can just pass in a value to a parameter.
>> Kyle: By the way, another usage for
IIFE, it may be a little less common, but
another usage for IIFE is for
turning things that are statements into
expressions, because and
IIFE is an expression.
There are sometimes places where
it would be convenient to have
a statement be in an expression position.
One of those examples,
which I have run into on many occasions,
is I would like to be able to make
an assignment to a variable and
then have that assignment
expression include a try, catch.
For example, I often will do something
like teacher equals fetchteacher and
that function might be
able to throw exception.
So it would be nice if I would wrap that
in a try catch then have a fall back.
Well, the down side is the try
catch is a statement so
it doesn't work in an expression position.
That's an unfortunate
nuance of our grammar.
And so the next best hack is
that we just make a variable and
then assign to it twice,
like we're doing here.
And a lot of you probably do this,
and I certainly have as well.
But I would like to be able to make it
clearer especially if there was gonna be
more lines of code than just the three or
four.
I'd like to make it clear
to the reader of my code,
that teacher only gets assigned once.
That's not terribly
obvious from this code.
You have to sort of figure out, okay,
I'm only getting one of the two values.
And I'd like to make it obvious
that teacher gets assigned once.
So, if I use an IIFE,
I can accomplish that a little bit more
clearly, I can make a try catch statement
into an expression by wrapping
a function expression around it.
Not very common, but I'm just pointing out
that IIFEs can be used any place that you
need an expression, and
any time you need a statement or
a scope in an expression position,
the IIFE accomplishes that task.